.TH cwstudio 1  "April 24, 2013" "" ""
.SH NAME
cwstudio \- lightweight and portable CW signals generator with Curses UI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cwstudio
[\-\-play]
[\-\-noplay]
[\-\-silent]
[\-\-verbose]
[\-\-groups]
[\-\-words]
[\-\-calls]
[\-\-agc 0-100]
[\-\-bits bits]
[\-\-click 0-100]
[\-\-chars nchars]
[\-\-charset charset]
[\-\-cspaces 0-100]
[\-\-dashlen 100-10000]
[\-\-detune 0-100]
[\-\-even 0-100]
[\-\-freq 50-4000]
[\-\-number 1-100]
[\-\-hand 0-100]
[\-\-highcut 300-10000]
[\-\-hum 0-100]
[\-\-lowcut 50-1000]
[\-\-noise 0-100]
[\-\-odd 0-100]
[\-\-output outfile]
[\-\-qsb 0-100]
[\-\-samplerate samplerate]
[\-\-seed 1-32767]
[\-\-shape -10 - 10]
[\-\-signals 1-5]
[\-\-spacelen 20-300]
[\-\-sweep -4000 - 4000]
[\-\-sweepness 0 - 10000]
[\-\-tempo 5-500]
[\-\-window 0-1000]
[\-\-wordset 0-1000]
[\-\-wspaces 0-100] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
Curses-based CW signal generator. F1 shows help in interactive mode. In batch mode (--noplay), senerates 1-5 mixed CW signals of various properties, adds 
optional noise and saves it to a WAV file. If compiled on proper environment, it can play the result. Command line parameters are also interpreted in
interactive mode!
.PP
In batch mode all text output is written to stderr; if stdout is redirected, the created file is written here. If stdin is redirected, the generated text is taken from it.
.PP
Optional CWPARAM environment variable can be set to hold some parameters, for example CWPARAM="--even 10 --odd 10".
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-\-play \-\-noplay
Play the result (default), otherwise only save the WAV file.
.TP
\-\-silent \-\-verbose
Verbose mode gives full output (default), silent mode presents only generated text.
.TP
\-\-groups \-\-words \-\-calls
The "groups" mode generates random five-letter groups. The "words" mode generates most common English words. The "calls" mode generates real amateur callsigns.
.TP
\-\-agc 0-100
Simulate AGC response of receiver by varying noise volume along RMS of the signal. Default is 100.
.TP
\-\-bits bits
Set bitrate. Default is 16.
.TP
\-\-click 0-100
Simulate click by lowering sustain part of tone at given level (in dB) below attack phase. Default is 1 dB.
.TP
\-\-chars nchars
Take first "nchars" from default charset in "groups" mode.
.TP
\-\-charset charset
Set customized charset for random group generation in "groups" mode.
.TP
\-\-cspaces 0-100
Set additional spaces (one space has a length of a dot) between chars. Default is 0.
.TP
\-\-dashlen 100-1000
Length of dash, in percentage of dot. Default is 300% (3:1).
.TP
\-\-detune 0-100
Simulate frequency drift of the signal. Default is 0.
.TP
\-\-even 0-100
Enhance the signal by given percent of even harmonics. Default is 0. Values 0-5 are most valuable in practice.
.TP
\-\-freq 50-4000
Use given frequency in Hz..
.TP
\-\-number 1-100
Generate given number of groups/words/calls. Default is 20.
.TP
\-\-hand 0-100
Simulate hand transmitting by introduce random errors in dash/dot lengths.
.TP
\-\-highcut 300-10000
Set high cutoff frequency (Hz) of generated noise. Default is 2400.
.TP
\-\-hum 0-100
Add given percentage of 50 Hz mains hum. Default is 0.
.TP
\-\-lowcut 50-1000
Set low cutoff frequency (Hz) of generated noise. Default is 300.
.TP
\-\-noise 0-100
Add given percentage of noise. Default is 100.
.TP
\-\-odd odd
Enhance the signal by given percent of odd harmonics. Default is 0. Values 0-5 are most valuable in practice.
.TP
\-\-output outfile
Store the result in a WAV file of given name. Default is output.wav.
.TP
\-\-qsb 0-100
Add given amount of signal QSB. Default is 0.
.TP
\-\-samplerate samplerate
Set given samplerate. Default is 44100.
.TP
\-\-seed 0-32767
Set explicitly the seed of random generator. If not set or set to 0, seed is also random generated. Otherwise it is set to given value, resulting in a possibility of repetitive random content generation.
.TP
\-\-shape -50 - +50
Set the shape of random generated numbers. Positive value increases the fraction of higher numbers (last letters, words, calls). Negative values prefer first ones. Zero means flat uniform distribution. 
Can be used to increase the number of newly learned letters/words. In practice, values -10 to 10 are well working.
.TP
\-\-signals 1-5
Generate given number of mixed signals, each of hardcoded frequency ratio, tempo ratio and amplitude ratio. Every signal plays the same text in a loop. Default is 3.
.TP
\-\-spacelen 20-300
Space length (between dots and dashes) in percentage of dot. Default is 100% (1:1).
.TP
\-\-sweep -4000 - 4000
Simulate sweep (chirp or filter ringing according to parameters) by starting each tone from given frequency (can be negative, which results in zero crossing). Frequency is then changed exponentially to this given in --freq with a rate given by --sweepness. Default is 0.
.TP
\-\-sweepness 0-10000
The rate of exponential frequency change from --sweep to --freq. Default is 0 (no sweep).
.TP
\-\-tempo 5-500
Tempo of generated main signal in cpm (chars per minute) according to PARIS group.
.TP
\-\-window 0-1000
Raised cosine window width (used to avoid clicks in each tone). Default is 100 samples.
.TP
\-\-wordset 0-1000
Take only first given number of most common English words in "words" mode.
.TP
\-\-wspaces 0-100
Set additional spaces between words/groups/calls. Default is zero.
.PP
.SH EXIT STATUS
CWStudio returns 0 if everything is OK. In the case of error, return value is different.
.SH AUTHOR
Lukasz Komsta, SP8QED, 2008-2013
